
1. Article 85 of the Indian Constitution
The President shall not intervene for a period of six months between the previous meeting in one session and the date set for the first sitting in the following session. The President may, from time to time, end a session of (a parliament or other legislative assembly) the Houses or either House without dissolving it, a practice known as proroguing, and dissolve the House of the People.


2. Article 87 of the Indian Constitution deals with the Special address by the President. It further states the following:

At the commencement of the first session after each general election to the House of the People and at the commencement of the first session of each year, the President shall address both Houses of Parliament assembled together and inform Parliament of the causes of its summons
Provision shall be made by rules regulating the procedure of either House for the allotment of time for discussion of the matters referred to in such address

Provision shall be made by rules regulating the procedure of either House for the allotment of time for discussion of the matters referred to in such address


3. Article 174.
 Sessions of the State Legislature, prorogation and dissolution
(1)
The Governor shall from time to time summon the House or each House of the Legislature of the State to meet at such time and place as he thinks fit, but six months shall not intervene between its last sitting in one session and the date appointed for its first sitting in the next session.
(2)
The Governor may from time to time-
(a)
prorogue the House or either House;
(b)
dissolve the Legislative Assembly.


4. Article 176, Constitution of India 1950
(1) At the commencement of every session, the Governor shall address the Legislative Assembly or, in the case of a State having a Legislative Council, both Houses assembled together and inform the Legislature of the causes of its summons.


5. Article 341 and Article 342
Article 341 of the Indian Constitution authorises the President to declare certain castes and classes as Scheduled Castes in a state or a union territory. It also states that the Parliament can include or exclude any caste or tribe from the list. Similar provisions are stated for the Scheduled Tribes in Article 342.

Article 342A : deals with the power of president of india to notify a particular caste as a socialy and economically backward class (SEBC) and the power of parliament to change the list.



6. Article 371: Special Provisions about Maharashtra And Goa
	371A (aAG) : Nagaland
	371B (bAS) : Assam
	371C (cM) : Manipur
	371D (dAndha, dP) : Andhra Pradesh
	371E () : Establishment of central university in Andhra Pradesh
	371F (fIkkir) : Sikkim
	371G (gM) : Mizoram
	371H (hArun, hP) : Arunachal Pradesh
	371I (iG) : Goa
	371J (j -> k) : Karnataka

7. Article 372 : Continuance in force of existing laws and their adaptation

8. Article 375, Constitution of India 1950
All courts of civil, criminal and revenue jurisdiction, all authorities and all officers, judicial, executive and ministerial, throughout the territory of India, shall continue to exercise their respective functions subject to the provisions of this Constitution.


9. Article 376:Provisions as to Judges of High Courts

10. Article 368 : 

Article 368 (1) of the Constitution of India grants constituent power to make formal amendments and empowers Parliament to amend the Constitution by way of addition, variation or repeal of any provision according to the procedure laid down therein, which is differItent from the procedure for ordinary legislation.


11. Article 3 :

It can form a completely new State by separating the territory from any State by uniting two or more states or parts of states or by uniting any territory to a part of any state.
It can increase or decrease the area of any State.
It can change/alter the name of any State.
It can also make changes to the boundaries of a State.


12. Article 266 : 
Article 266 of the Indian Constitution requires governments to maintain their fund balance in special accounts known as ‘Consolidated Funds.


13. Article 226 :
 Notwithstanding anything in article 32, every High Court shall have power, throughout the territories in relation to which it exercises jurisdiction, to issue to any person or authority, including in appropriate cases, any Government, within those territories directions, orders or writs, including writs in the nature of habeas corpus, mandamus, prohibition, quo warranto and certiorari, or any of them, for the enforcement of any of the rights conferred by Part III and for any other purpose.

	Habeas Corpus : It means "you must have a body". The high court issues an order to present the detained before the court and to analyze whether the arrest was legal or not.
	Mandamus : It means "We command". The court issues orders or discharges authorities to perform the lawful duties which have not been performed or refused to perform.
	Certiorari : It means "To be informed". The high/Supreme court gets the authority to review the decisions and actions of the lower courts.
	Quo Warranto : "By what authority". This writs order a person to show under what authority he/she has excercised his/her rights and powers.
	Prohibition : The writ is issued by the higher authority to lower authority to abide by their order and curtail any actions which is prohibited by the law.



14. Article 143 : ( It empowers the supreme court with advisory jurisdiction )

Article 143 of the Constitution authorises the president to seek the opinion of the Supreme court in the two categories of matters:

	1. On any question of law or fact of public importance which has arisen or which is likely to arise. 
	2. On any dispute arising out of any pre-constitution treaty, agreement, covenant, engagement, sanad or other similar instruments. 


15. Article 141 :

a)Article 141 states that the law declared by the Supreme Court shall be binding on all courts within the territory of India. 
b)The law declared has to be construed as a principle of law that emanates from a judgment, or an interpretation of law or judgment by the Supreme Court, upon which the case is decided.
c)Article 141 does not carve out an exception or proviso which allows the Supreme Court to make an observation regarding what shall not be treated as a precedent.


16. Article 124 : 

Article 124 deals with the Establishment and constitution of the Supreme Court. It states that there shall be a Supreme Court of India constituting of a Chief Justice of India and, until Parliament by law prescribes a larger number, of not more than seven other Judges. 


16. Article 217 :

Article 217 provides that every Judge of a High Court shall be appointed by the President by a warrant under his hand and seal after consultation with the Chief Justice of India, the Governor of the State, and, in the case of appointment of a Judge other than the Chief Justice, the Chief Justice of the High Court 


17. Article 122 : It deals with the annual financial statement.
It says that the President shall in respect of every financial year cause to be laid before both the Houses of Parliament a statement of the estimated receipts and expenditure of the Government of India for that year


18. Article 280 :
As per provisions given in Article 280 of the Constitution of India, the President of India can constitute the Finance Commission and give its recommendations on the distribution of tax between the State Governments and Union Government and also amongst the states themselves.	


19. Article 360 :
It empowers the president to invoke financial emergency.

20. Article 356 :
President's rule can be imposed on any state of india on the grounds of failure of the constitutional monarchy.


21. Article 365 :
 As per this Article, President’s Rule can be imposed if any state fails to comply with all directions given by the Union on matters it is empowered to.


22. Article 352 :
the President can declare a national emergency when the security of India or a part of it is threatened by war or external aggression or armed rebellion.


23. Article 243zh - Article 243zt : Talks about cooperative societies



24. Article 325 :
Article 325 of the Indian Constitution says that No person to be ineligible for inclusion in, or to claim to be included in a special, electoral roll on grounds of religion, race, caste or sex. 


25. Article 326 :
Article 326 of the Indian Constitution is responsible for conducting elections to the Legislative Assembly and Lok Sabha of each state under a certain set of rules. According to the article, elections should be conducted based on adult suffrage. According to adult suffrage, any person who is an Indian citizen and is above 21 years of age can vote. Later it was changed to 18 years


26. Article 4:
This Article allows for consequential changes in the Ist Schedule i.e. names of the States in the Union of India and IVth  Schedule i.e. a number of seats allotted in the Rajya Sabha for each state. Constitution will not treat any such law altering existing States or creating a new State, as the amendment.



27. Article 2A :
Sikkim, which comprises the territories specified in the Tenth Schedule, shall be associated with the Union on the terms and conditions set out in that Schedule.



28. Article 361 :
According to Article 361 of the Constitution of India, a criminal proceeding cannot be instituted in a court against the president or the Governor during his term of office.



29. Article 48 :
Article 48 of the Constitution of India is one of the Directive Principles which directs the state to make efforts for banning animal slaughtering of cows and calves and other milch and draught cattle



30. Article 340: 
Article 340 provides for the appointment of a Commission to investigate the conditions of backward classes



31. Article 301 :
Article 301 of the Indian Constitution deals with freedom of trade, commerce and intercourse. It mentions that subject to the other provisions of this Part, trade, commerce and intercourse throughout the territory of India shall be free. 



32. Article 338 :
According to article 338, there shall be a Commission(National Commission for the Scheduled Tribes) for the Scheduled Castes to be known as the National Commission for the Scheduled Casts


33. Article 338A :
According to article 338 A, there shall be a Commission(National Commission for the Scheduled Tribes) for the Scheduled Tribes to be known as the National Commission for the Scheduled Tribes

102nd amendment 2018
{
	34. Article 338B :
	It deals with the structure, duty and powers of the national commission of the National commission for backward classes(NCBC).


	35. Article 342A : 
	deals with the power of president of india to notify a particular caste as a socialy and economically backward class (SEBC) and the power of parliament to change the list.
}



34. Article 358 :
Article 358 is confined to Fundamental Rights under Article 19. The Right of freedom of Speech and Expression comes under Article 19. Once an emergency is declared in India, Article 358 automatically suspends these rights.



35. Article 359 :
Article 359 authorizes the President of India to suspend the right to move any court for the enforcement of Fundamental Rights during a national emergency. Under a Presidential order, the state government can make any law or can take any executive action abridging or taking away the specified Fundamental Rights. It can extend to the whole of India, or part of it. It can be removed by Presidential order.




