1. Balaji Raghavan vs UOI :
the Supreme Court upheld the validity of civilian honors but criticized the government for not exercising restraint in awarding these. It held that the national awards were not meant to be used as titles and those who have done so should forfeit the award.


2. Indra Sawhney v Union of India & Ors


3. Champakam Dorairajan v. Madras (1951)  : the apex court ruled that the Directive Principle ‘are sub-ordinate to and should run subsidiary to the chapter on Fundamental Rights’.

4. Quareshi v. Bihar (1958) : SR Das, CJ held that no Directive Principle can override a Fundamental Right as enshrined in Chapter III.


5. Bihar v. Kameshwar (1952) : the apex court cited such a Directive in support of the abolition of Zamindari system.


6. Bijoy Cotton Mills v. Ajmir :   the court upheld the fixation of Minimum Wage Act based on a Directive.


7.  Champakam Dorairajan case20 (1951)  :    the Supreme Court ruled that in case of any conflict between the Fundamental Rights and the Directive Principles, the former would prevail. It declared that the Directive Principles have to conform to and run as subsidiary to the Fundamental Rights. But, it also held that the Fundamental Rights could be amended by the Parliament by enacting constitutional amendment acts.


8. Golaknath case21 (1967) :
 In that case, the Supreme Court ruled that the Parliament cannot take away or abridge any of the Fundamental Rights, which are ‘sacrosanct’ in nature. In other words, the Court held that the Fundamental Rights cannot be amended for the implementation of the Directive Principles.


9. Kesavananda Bharati case24 (1973) :
 the Supreme Court declared the above second provision of Article 31C as unconstitutional and invalid on the ground that judicial review is a basic feature of the Constitution and hence, cannot be taken away. However, the above first provision of Article 31C was held to be constitutional and valid.


10.  Minerva Mills case25 (1980) :
 the present position is that the Fundamental Rights enjoy supremacy over the Directive Principles. Yet, this does not mean that the Directive Principles cannot be implemented. The Parliament can amend the Fundamental Rights for implementing the Directive Principles, so long as the amendment does not damage or destroy the basic structure of the Constitution.






