1. Established in 7 Nov 1975, NTPC aims to be the world's largest and best power major. NTPC has comprehensive Rehabilitation & Resettlement and CSR policies well integrated with its core business of setting up power projects and generating electricity. NTPC Limited, formerly known as National Thermal Power Corporation

2.  August 16, 1984. GAIL (India) Ltd was incorporated in August 1984 as a Central Public Sector Undertaking (PSU) under the Ministry of Petroleum & Natural Gas (MoP&NG).

3.  The National Manufacturing Competitiveness Council (NMCC) has been set up by the Government under DIPP, Ministry of Commerce to provide a continuing forum for policy dialogue to energize and sustain the growth of manufacturing industries in India. Dr. V. Krishnamurthy is the chairman. set up in 2004

4. Bharat Heavy Electricals Limited (BHEL) is an Indian central public sector undertaking and the largest government-owned power generation equipment manufacturer. Mr. Koppu Sadashiv Murthy appointed Chairman and Managing Director, BHEL . 13 November 1964 establishment

5.  Steel Authority of India (SAIL) is a steel manufacturing enterprise owned and operated by the Ministry of Steel, Government of India. Ever since its establishment on 24 January 1973 . A maharatana.  Shri Amarendu Prakash has assumed the charge of Chairman, Steel Authority of India Limited (SAIL).

6. Oil India Limited is an Exploration and Production Company engaged in the business of exploration and production of Crude Oil & Natural Gas, production of LPG, transportation of Crude Oil and Product transportation from Numaligarh to Siliguri which are not directly supplied/delivered to general public.  Dr. Ranjit Rath, Chairman & Managing Director (CMD), Oil India Limited (OIL) is an alumnus of IIT Bombay & IIT Kharagpur. OIL was incorporated on 18 February 1959, with two-thirds of the shares held by BOC and the rest by GOI. The Agreement assured Burmah Oil a dividend of 10% and Digboi Refinery 1.3 million barrels of oil per year. Mr W P G Maclachlan, a key player in the negotiation, became the first Chairman of OIL. 

7.  The first textile industry was established in mumbai in 1854.

8. The first jute mil industry was set up in 1855, rishra, kolkata. Bangladesh > India

9. India second largest producer of sugar but first in gud.

10. iron ore, coking coal and lime stone in 4:2:1 proportion is required to manufacture steel.

11. Yes; it is another instance of the resistance of the tribal to losing their lands to industrialization. The Tata Group has contracted with the Government of Odisha to set up a giant steel plant in Kalinganagar area. As the tribals living in this area would have lost their land and their livelihoods would be threatened, they revolted. On 2nd January, 2006 in a police firing incident, 13 tribals were killed. Subsequently, when their bodies were being handed over to their relatives, it was found that palms of five tribals had been chopped off (for identifying them by fingerprinting) by the doctors conducting the postmortems on them. The above controversy has affected the setting up of this steel plant and also the industrialization in Odisha overall.  

12. National Aluminium Company Limited (NALCO) is a Schedule 'A' Navratna CPSE established on 7th January, 1981 having its registered office at Bhubaneswar. It is one of the largest integrated Bauxite-Alumina-Aluminium- Power Complex in the Country. At present, Government of India holds 51.28% of paid up equity capital. Shri Sridhar Patra as Chairman-cum-Managing Director of the Company. Ministry of Mines has administrative control over the company.

13. Bayer process is the process of taking out alumina from bauxite. Hall Herald Process is the process of taking out aluminum from alumina.

14. The first Cement plant was set up in chennai in 1904.

15. The recipients include Korvi Rakshand of Bangladesh, Eugenio Lemos of Timor-Leste, Miriam Coronel-Ferrer of the Philippines, and Dr. Ravi Kannan R. from India --> ramon magsaysay award.

16. Vishakhapatnam Class (Project 15B) -> INS Vishakhapatnam, INS imphal, INS marmugaon, INS Surat